About Goa Campus: Welcome to Goa Campus. Nestled in the lush green southern part of coastal state Goa , the transit campus of NFSU Goa is located in the picturesque town of Ponda . Hon’ble Union Minister of Home Affairs, India inaugurated NFSU Goa Campus on 14 October 2021 and within a short span of time , the Campus started functioning as a full - fledged Academic Institution . NFSU Goa is offering four specialised academic programmes in the niche areas of Forensic Sciences and Cyber security , namely- Integrated B.Sc.-M.Sc . Forensic Science ( 5 - Years ) , M.Sc . Forensic Science , M.Sc . Digital Forensics and Information Security and M.Sc . Cyber Security. Besides Academic programmes , the Campus is also organising training programmes to promote ‘ Forensic Best Practices ’ in the western region and Goa state in particular . As a part of the focus, driven approach and raise awareness International Conferences , Symposiums and Workshops in the relevant niche areas of Forensic and allied sciences are being regularly organised by the Campus . The vision is to develop NFSU Goa Campus as a “Centre of Excellence” offering education and research opportunities of very high standards in Forensic & allied Sciences , thereby creating conducive ambience and atmosphere for intellectual stimulation , and develop the overall personality of the students , instilling high levels of discipline . The Campus strives to set global standards to make students technologically superior and ethically strong . 

Aim & Objectives: The objects of the University shall be To facilitate and promote academic learning and practices in the field of forensic science in conjunction with applied behavioural science studies , law , legal studies , criminology and other allied areas and technology , including training , Objects of University . SEC . 1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 5 skill - development , research and extension of work with focus on emerging areas in the said fields for strengthening criminal justice institutions in the country ; To foster research and applied applications in forensic science , applied behavioural science studies , law , legal studies and other allied areas and technology for training , research and development by promoting innovations and best practices ; To promote and provide advanced institutional and research facilities in the fields of forensic science , applied behavioural science , law , legal studies and other allied areas and technology ; To create capacities and capabilities of global standards of education , training and research for development of aptitude , skills and knowledge within and outside the country at various levels in the fields of forensic science , applied behavioural science , law , legal studies and other allied areas and technology ; To coordinate with the Central Government and State Governments to improve investigation , crime detection and prevention through projects and research , funded by grants - in - aid from the Central Government and State Governments , in fields of forensic science , applied behavioural science , law , legal studies , criminology and other allied areas and technology ; To advice and assist the Central Government , State Governments and Union territory Administrations in formulation of relevant policies including their review in the fields of forensic science , applied behavioural science , law , legal studies , criminology and other allied areas and technology ; To coordinate and network with the institutions having specialisation so as to expand the fields of forensic science , applied behavioural science , law , legal studies , criminology and other allied areas and technology , for promoting academics and research work through various pursuits ; To administer , maintain and manage the University and to establish such off - site campus and off - shore centres for education , training and research as are necessary for the furtherance of the objects of the University within and outside the country ; to assist the Central Government or State Governments to accredit forensic science laboratories , provide standard operating procedures , and lay down specifications for forensic equipment and kits to be used for forensic work in the country ; To set - up campus , colleges , schools , centres and institutions of excellence for imparting State of - the - art education , training and research in the fields of forensic science , cyber security and digital forensics , behavioural science , technology and management ; To assist the Central Government to create and maintain national forensic data base required for criminal investigation , including fingerprints , voice , Deoxyribonucleic Acid ( DNA ) , firearms , counterfeit currency , narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances , cyber security , cyber defence and internal security ; To undertake special projects for Central Government and State Governments ; and To undertake any other objects , not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act which the Central Government may , by notification , specify in this behalf . 

Contact Us: National Forensic Sciences University Opp Goa Dairy Curti , Ponda , Goa – 403401 Office Timings : 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM ( Monday - Friday ) The University remains closed on Saturdays , Sundays & Public Holidays . Campus Director 0832 - 2313036/2313026/101 Deputy Registrar 0832 - 2313034/102 Dean Academics 0832 - 2313047/103 Reception / International Cell 0832 - 2313030/202 Email : director_goa@nfsu.ac.in Call Us : 0832 - 2313036 

Centre of Excellence: Home Academic Units Centre of Excellence Centre of Excellence The National Forensic Sciences University with the status of an Institution of National Importance is the world ’s first and only University dedicated to Forensic , behavioral , cybersecurity , digital forensics , and allied Sciences . It was established by the Government of India through Act , 2020 ( 32 of 2020 ) with the objective of fulfilling the acute shortage against the increasing demand for forensic experts in the country and around the world . Gandhinagar Campus is the first campus of National Forensic Sciences University at Gandhinagar , Gujarat . The Gandhinagar Campus of the National Forensic Sciences University is running 46 courses in the eight schools namely , School of Doctoral Studies and Research , School of Forensic Science , School of Cyber Security and Digital Forensics , School of Management Studies , School of Engineering and Technology , School of Pharmacy , School of Behavioral Sciences and School of Open Learning . Due to the advanced and specialized courses run by each of the schools , it currently offers only postgraduate level academic programs . Maintaining excellence in education , research , and training with appropriate facilities within this campus encourage collaborations across multiple disciplines and skillsets . The Gandhinagar Campus - Ultramodern Campus is constructed near the DFS premises , on a government allocated land of 50,000 square meters . The Gandhinagar Campus is headed by the Campus Director and each school is headed by the Dean and Associate Dean . Gandhinagar Campus has the following Centers : Centre for International Relations Cyber Defence Centre ( CDC ) Center of Excellence for Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances ( NDPS ) Ballistics Research & Testing Centre International Centre for Humanitarian Forensics ( ICHF ) Centre for Futuristic Defence Studies Forensic Innovation Centre Buddha Psychological Centre Academics Academic Calendar Research Projects Results Our Campus & Life Internal Complaints Committee Research Centers 

Placements Cell: The National Forensic Sciences University (formerly known as Gujarat Forensic Sciences University) welcomes to globally reputed recruiters to offer internship and / or job placement in the domain of forensics sciences , behavioural sciences , forensics accounting , homeland security , cyber security , digital forensics , pharmacy and forensic civil structural engineering etc . Why NFSU ? Established in 2009 , as Gujarat Forensic Sciences University and elevated as the National Forensic Sciences University with the status of an Institution of National Importance is the world 's first and only University dedicated to Forensic , behavioural , cybersecurity , digital forensics , and allied Sciences . It was established by the Government of India through Act , 2020 ( 32 of 2020 ) with the objective of fulfilling the acute shortage against the increasing demand for forensic experts in the country and around the world . NFSU is recognized worldwide as a leader in the field of research and education in forensic sciences and allied sciences . If you are looking for skilled resources in the domain of Forensic physics Forensic Toxicology Forensic Biotechnology Forensic Question Document Examination Forensics Finger Print Science Cyber Security Digital Forensics Information Security Cyber Security Management Forensic Odontology Multi - Media Forensics Nano - technology Food Technology Pharmacy Civil Engineering Forensic Accounting Hospital and Health Care Management Homeland Security Chemistry Pharmacy Clinical Psychology Forensic Psychology Criminology Neuropsychology then NSFU is the world - wide leader in this domain . Alumni The alumni of NFSU are of the highest caliber and repute . Many of them have reached positions of eminence in their selected fields of professions . They have reached perfection through excellence in their selected fields of industry , business , the public sector , academics , and research or as entrepreneurs . This Institute also involves Alumni in its educational and research activities wherever possible , by inviting them to participate on its advisory boards , as visiting faculty or guest speakers . Our alumni too have responded whole heartedly by supporting the Institute and also by their most generous endowments leading to the establishment of schools , labs , competitions , and various infrastructure developments . Selection Process The selection procedure for the various programmes at NFSU ensures that only the very best of the students make it to their campuses . NFSU gives the admission purely on the basis of entrance examination along with the other admission criteria decided by the NFSU time to time . The university conducts entrance examination all over the India and select best students out of it . The university also gives the preference to GATE qualified students with valid score . Contact US NFSU invites various multinational companies to grab the opportunity to select a world - class skill set from our university for internship or job placement . You can reach us on # Note : Below contact numbers for Placements not for Admission . ( Please do not call on below numbers for an admission inquiry ) Dr. Digvijaysinh Rathod Head Students ' Placement Cell +91 - 79 239 77159 placement_gnr@nfsu.ac.in For recruitment in the School of Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics , potential employers can contact placement_scsdf@nfsu.ac.in Dr. Haresh Barot +91 - 79 239 77160 mba_placement@nfsu.ac.in SCSDF Placement Report 2016 to 2020 SCSDF Placement Report 2022 - 2023 SMS Placement Report 2022 - 2023 School of Security and Digital Forensics - Placement Interaction with Students Placed in ABB - Experience of Studying at NFSU & Campus Placement View Interacting with Qualcomm & Salesforce Candidates - Experience of Studying at NFSU & Campus Placement View Interaction with Students Placed in Accenture - Experience of Studying at NFSU & Campus Placement View Interaction with Students Placed in Microsoft. 

NFSU Vision: To fulfill the acute shortage of Forensic Experts in the Country and the World . To make the World a Better and Safer place to live . To carry out Research in the area of Forensic Science , Crime Investigation , Security , Behavioral Science and Criminology . 

NFSU Mission: Education through Investigation To impart High - Quality Education of International Standards To carry out research in the area of Forensic Science, Crime Investigation, Security, Behavioural Sci­ence and Criminology The National Forensic Sciences University with the status of an Institution of National Importance is the world 's first and only University dedicated to Forensic, behavioural, cybersecurity, digital forensics, and allied Sciences. It was established by the Government of India through Act, 2020 ( 32 of 2020 ) with the objective of fulfilling the acute shortage against the increasing demand for forensic experts in the country and around the world .

Why NFSU? It will promote teaching and research to achieve excellence in the field of forensic science in association with applied behavioural science, law, criminology and other allied areas. It will conduct innovative experiments and develop new methods and technologies in the field of science, technology and management in relation to the domains of investigation, prevention and detection of crimes. It will provide training, skill - development, research and extension of work in forensic science, applied behavioural science, law, legal studies, criminology to all the stakeholders of the criminal justice delivery system of India and abroad . The status of INI will increase its national and global outreach and will be able to provide more services related to academic, research, training and consultancy in forensic and allied sciences . In order to create skilled manpower in the field of criminal investigation, national status will accommodate students across the country without any discrimination . 

Hostel Facilities: Currently, hostel facilities at NFSU are available exclusively for B.Sc. and international students, providing a comfortable and secure living environment. For detailed information about the hostel accommodations, you can contact Dr. Raj Jaiswal, who will guide you regarding the application process and availability.  
Additionally, students have access to numerous housing options in the vicinity of the institute. These accommodations are available at reasonable rates and come equipped with essential amenities such as beds, refrigerators, washing machines, and more. Many of these options also offer flexible leasing terms, making them ideal for students with diverse needs. Whether you choose on-campus or off-campus housing, you’ll find a range of facilities designed to support your academic journey and personal well-being.

Food: At NFSU, we are committed to ensuring the well-being of our students by offering high-quality, nutritious meals. Our on-campus canteen serves wholesome food in a convenient thali format, available at a subsidized cost to make it both affordable and accessible for all. We prioritize food quality by sourcing fresh, locally-produced ingredients and maintaining stringent hygiene standards in preparation. The menu is carefully curated to include a balanced variety of dishes, ensuring students enjoy both taste and nutrition. Meals are available at flexible timings to accommodate diverse schedules, making it easier for students to stay energized and focused throughout the day.

Campuses of NFSU
NFSU has 10 campuses 
1. Gujarat Campus
The National Forensic Sciences University with the status of an Institution of National Importance is the world's first and only University dedicated to Forensic, behavioural, cybersecurity, digital forensics, and allied Sciences. It was established by the Government of India through Act, 2020 (32 of 2020) with the objective of fulfilling the acute shortage against the increasing demand for forensic experts in the country and around the world.

2. Goa Campus
Nestled in the lush green southern part of coastal state Goa, the transit campus of NFSU Goa is located in the picturesque town of Ponda. Hon’ble Union Minister of Home Affairs, India inaugurated NFSU Goa Campus on 14 October 2021 and within a short span of time, the Campus started functioning as a full-fledged Academic Institution.

3. Delhi Campus
The Institute of Criminology and Forensic Science was established by Government of India in 1972 within the Bureau of Police Research and Development following recommendations of the University Grants Commission (UGC) to setup a Central Institute for teaching Criminology and Forensic Science. The UGC had earlier set up an Expert Committee to suggest steps to bring 'Criminology' and 'Forensic Science' into the general stream of university education, pursuant to resolutions taken at UNESCO Symposium (London, 1955) that systematic understanding of Criminology and Forensic Science was necessary for Law Enforcement Officers and the Universities should be encouraged to include these disciplines in their curriculum.

4. Tripura Campus
The National Forensic Sciences University (NFSU) is the erstwhile Gujarat Forensic Sciences University (GFSU), the world’s first and the only University dedicated to Forensic Science and allied subjects. NFSU has established its campus at Agartala, Tripura in November 2021 and a lush green permanent campus will be coming up soon at Srinagar, Agartala, Tripura spreading over approximately 50 acres of area. At present, the campus offers a two-year Postgraduate programme, a 5-year integrated B.Sc. - M.Sc. in the domain of Forensic Science programme and a 5-year integrated B.Tech. - M.Tech. Computer Science Engineering in Cyber Security. The campus is dedicated to teach and train students in criminal investigation through world class teaching, research, training and innovation.

5. Bhopal Campus
National Forensic Sciences University was initially established as the Gujrat Forensic University by Govt of Gujrat in 2008 at Gandhinagar. It was upgraded to a National University in the year 2020 by Govt of India and was designated as the Institution of National importance by an act of parliament under the aegis of Ministry of Home Affairs, Govt of India. The University is solely dedicated to Forensic and Investigative Science and is the only one of its kind in the world. It has Eight campuses and two Academies spread across the country in different states and one international campus in Africa. More campuses are planned to be established in the near future in different states to increase the outreach of Forensic Science across the length and breadth of the nation. Besides Academics, the University has a strong focus on Research, Consultancy and Training and has a huge potential of collaboration with the Police and Judicial services as well as the Forensic Labs of States and Central Govt.

6. Pune Campus
National Forensic Science Academy - Pune, Maharashtra (NFSU Academy – Pune) is another off-campus of National Forensic Sciences University (NFSU), which has been established in collaboration with Directorate of Forensic Science Services (DFSS, New Delhi) and Central Forensic Science Laboratory - Pune (CFSL- Pune) in the Month of June 2022 through NFSU Notification ADM/NFSU/Noti_Campuses/1932/2022. The academy is presently functioning from the CFSL - Pune building in the Pune district of Maharashtra. The NFSU Academy, Pune envisions a holistic development through research, training & quality education. It is an eminent institute dedicated towards imparting and building scientific aptitude in highly specialized domains.

7. Guwahati Campus
NFSU-Guwahati Campus is the 9th Campus of NFSU in India and the main campus in northeast India, which was established, and its transit campus was inaugurated by the Honourable Home Minister of India on 25th May 2023 at Guwahati, Assam. The campus in engaged in imparting high-quality education and research in Forensic and allied sciences and is ready to provide training and consultancy services to all law enforcement agencies and similar organizations from both public and private sectors. One of the major objectives of NFSU Guwahati campus is to promote Forensic Science education in north-east India, produce scientifically and technically sound Forensic experts through education, skill development and training and strengthen the criminal justice delivery system. The campus will impart training to professionals in diverse area of forensic sciences (Crime Scene Management, DNA Forensics, Analysis of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, Ballistics Studies and Post Blast Investigations, Forensic Document Examination, Forensic Psychology, Homeland Security, Cyber Security and Digital Forensics) from government and private organization from East and North East Indian states as well as from neighbouring countries.

8. Manipur Campus
Evidently, Manipur being a small state in the Union of India, in terms of population and size, the variety and rate of crime is quite high while conviction rate is very low. State data reports plenty of crimes Against Women & Children. Being border state near the Golden Triangle, number of drugs cases related to addiction as well as trafficking is very high. The problem of insurgency has also added a large variety and number of crimes including various sophisticated firearms. Rate of Digital/ Cybercrimes has been increasing very fast.

9. Dharwad Campus
The National Forensic Sciences University (NFSU) is the erstwhile Gujarat Forensic Sciences University (GFSU), the world’s first and only University dedicated to Forensic Science and allied subjects. The NFSU Dharwad is the new campus of the National Forensic Sciences University (NFSU), an Institution of National Importance under the Ministry of Home Affairs.

10. Uganda Campus
NFSU (I) Campus at Jinja, Uganda is the campus of National Forensic Sciences University (NFSU) of India. It is not only the first ever overseas campus of NFSU but also India’s very first campus abroad for any public academic institution. It was inaugurated on 12th April, 2023, on behalf of the Hon’ble President of Uganda by Hon’ble Deputy Prime Minister of Uganda, Lukia Isanga Nakadama and the Hon’ble External Affairs Minister of India, Dr. S. Jaishankar.

